Well the actual facts in the 'Anna O' case
are disputed to put it mildly,
but it became the great illustration
of the new model of the mind,
because like the Okey Sisters,
like Trilby, like Gabrielle Bompard,
Anna seems to have two
completely separate personalities.
And a lot of doctors had speculated
that there must be
some physical cause for this,
some brain defect perhaps.
But what Freud argued, was that these
two apparently separate personalities
were actually an unconscious way
of dealing with trauma,
and that once that trauma
was recalled to consciousness
they could be brought into dialogue,
and the rift between them
could be healed.